ReadMe.md, before:

﻿# DataObjects.Net 

DataObjects.Net is a persistence and object-relational mapping framework for the Microsoft .NET. It allows developers to define persistent objects as well as business logic directly in C#, Visual Basic or F#. The persistent objects can be retrieved by LINQ queries. Persistent data can be stored in SQL Servers. In contrast to many other ORM frameworks the database model is generated and maintained automatically.

Supported databases:
- MS SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2019
- MS Azure SQL Database
- Oracle 10g, 11g
- PostgreSQL 8.3, 8.4, 9.0, 9.1, 9.2, 10, 11
- MySQL 5.5, 5.6
- Firebird 2.5
- Sqlite 3

### Installation

DataObjects.Net is available on Nuget. Install main package (already has MS SQL Server provider included)

    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Core

Providers for Oracle, PostgreSQL, Mysql, Firebird and SQLite may be installed optionally if you need them

    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Oracle.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.PostgreSQL.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.MySql.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Firebird.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Sqlite

DataObjects.Net extensions are available on Nuget as well (more about extensions [here](https://github.com/DataObjects-NET/dataobjects-net/blob/master/Documentation/Extensions.md))

    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.BulkOperations.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Localization.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Logging.log4net.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Reprocessing.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Security.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Tracking.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Web.Core



Use the --version option to specify preview version to install

### Usage 

The following  code demonstrates  basic usage of DataObjects.Net. For full tutorial configuring Domain, defining the model and querying data see our [documentation](https://duckduckgo.com).

    // create configuration with connection to Tests database on local instance of MS SQL Server
    var domainConfiguration = new DomainConfiguration(@"sqlserver://localhost/Tests");
    // register types from certain domain
    domainConfiguration.Types.Register(typeof (Person).Assembly, typeof (Person).Namespace);
    // create database structure from scratch
    domainConfiguration.UpgradeMode = DomainUpgradeMode.Recreate;

    // on application start build Domain
    var domain = Domain.Build(domainConfiguration);

    // open a session to database
    using (var session = domain.OpenSession()) {
      using (var transactionScope = session.OpenTransaction()) {
        // query for existing Anton Chekhov
        Author existingAuthor = session.Query.All<Author>()
          .Where(author => author.FirstName=="Anton" && author.LastName=="Chekhov")
          .FirstOrDefault();

        //if Anton Pavlovish isn't in database yet then and him
        if (existingAuthor==null) {
          existingAuthor = new new Author(session) {
            FirstName = "Anton",
            LastName = "Chekhov";
          }
        }

        // add new book and assign it with Anton Chekhov
        existingAuthor.Books.Add(new Book(session) {Title = "The Cherry Orchard"});

        // commit opened transaction to save changes made within it
        transactionScope.Complete();
      }
    }

    // on application shutdown dispose existing domain
    domain.Dispose()



### Getting support

If you have a specific question about using DataObjects.Net you can ask [on our support forum](http://support.x-tensive.com).


### Contributing

If you are intrested in congributing to this project, see [contributing](https://github.com/DataObjects-NET/dataobjects-net/blob/master/Documentation/Contributing.md).

Commit message:

Change ReadMe file
- Added build instructions
- Added licensing paragraph
- Contributing part removed until it is done
- Added support email and fixed reference to docs website
- other minor improvements

ReadMe.md, after:

﻿# DataObjects.Net

DataObjects.Net is a persistence and object-relational mapping framework for the Microsoft .NET. It allows developers to define persistent objects as well as business logic directly in C#, Visual Basic or F#. The persistent objects can be retrieved by LINQ queries. Persistent data can be stored in SQL Servers. In contrast to many other ORM frameworks the database model is generated and maintained automatically.

Supported databases:
- MS SQL Server 2008 R2, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2019
- MS Azure SQL Database
- Oracle 10g, 11g
- PostgreSQL 8.3, 8.4, 9.0, 9.1, 9.2, 10, 11
- MySQL 5.5, 5.6
- Firebird 2.5
- Sqlite 3

### Installation

DataObjects.Net is available on Nuget. Install main package (already has MS SQL Server provider included)

    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Core

Providers for Oracle, PostgreSQL, Mysql, Firebird and SQLite may be installed optionally if you need them

    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Oracle.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.PostgreSQL.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.MySql.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Firebird.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Sqlite

DataObjects.Net extensions are available on Nuget as well (more about extensions [here](https://github.com/DataObjects-NET/dataobjects-net/blob/master/Documentation/Extensions.md))

    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.BulkOperations.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Localization.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Logging.log4net.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Reprocessing.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Security.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Tracking.Core
    dotnet add package Xtensive.Orm.Web.Core

Use the --version option to specify preview version to install

### Usage 

The following  code demonstrates  basic usage of DataObjects.Net. For full tutorial configuring Domain, defining the model and querying data see our [documentation](http://help.dataobjects.net).

    // create configuration with connection to Tests database on local instance of MS SQL Server
    var domainConfiguration = new DomainConfiguration(@"sqlserver://localhost/Tests");
    // register types from certain domain
    domainConfiguration.Types.Register(typeof (Person).Assembly, typeof (Person).Namespace);
    // create database structure from scratch
    domainConfiguration.UpgradeMode = DomainUpgradeMode.Recreate;

    // on application start build Domain
    var domain = Domain.Build(domainConfiguration);

    // open a session to database
    using (var session = domain.OpenSession()) {
      using (var transactionScope = session.OpenTransaction()) {
        // query for existing Anton Chekhov
        Author existingAuthor = session.Query.All<Author>()
          .Where(author => author.FirstName=="Anton" && author.LastName=="Chekhov")
          .FirstOrDefault();

        //if Anton Pavlovich isn't in database yet then and him
        if (existingAuthor==null) {
          existingAuthor = new new Author(session) {
            FirstName = "Anton",
            LastName = "Chekhov";
          }
        }

        // add new book and assign it with Anton Chekhov
        existingAuthor.Books.Add(new Book(session) {Title = "The Cherry Orchard"});

        // commit opened transaction to save changes made within it
        transactionScope.Complete();
      }
    }

    // on application shutdown dispose existing domain
    domain.Dispose()



### Getting support

If you have a specific question about using DataObjects.Net you can ask [on our support forum](http://support.x-tensive.com) or send your question to [support@dataobjects.net](mailto:support@dataobjects.net).

### How To Build

Repository contains two solutions - `Orm` and `Weaver`.

The `Orm` solution contains DataObjects.Net projects and the extensions we develop and maintain (including tests).
The `Weaver` solution contains projects which are responsible for post-build processing of assemblies containing inheritors of `Xtensive.Orm.Persistent` class.

Simpliest way to build binaries of both solutions is to run

    dotnet build Build.proj

It builds binaries and pack them to Nuget packages. Results of build are available in `_Build` directory.

If packages aren't needed consider running

    dotnet build Build.proj /t:BuildBinaries

Version.props file declares version is building. `<DoVersion>` tag defiles version in `<Major version>.<Minor version>.<Revision>` format. Do not define Build number, it is defined while building. `<DoVersionSuffix>` should be defined for pre-release versions like Alphas, Betas, and RCs.

### License

DataObjects.Net and its extensions published here are licensed under the [MIT](https://github.com/DataObjects-NET/dataobjects-net/blob/master/License.txt) license.
